README.md, before:

# PRBProxy [![Github Actions][gha-badge]][gha] [![Coverage][codecov-badge]][codecov] [![Foundry][foundry-badge]][foundry] [![License: MIT][license-badge]][license]

[gha]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/actions
[gha-badge]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy
[codecov-badge]: https://codecov.io/gh/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/branch/staging/graph/badge.svg?token=4YV6JCTO9R
[foundry]: https://getfoundry.sh/
[foundry-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Foundry-FFDB1C.svg
[license]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg

PRBProxy is a **proxy contract that allows for the composition of Ethereum transactions on behalf of the contract
owner**, acting as a smart wallet that enables multiple contract calls within a single transaction. Externally owned
accounts (EOAs) do not have this functionality; they are limited to interacting with only one contract per transaction.

Some key features of PRBProxy include:

- Forwarding calls with [`DELEGATECALL`][se-3667]
- Use of [CREATE2][eip-1014] to deploy the proxies at deterministic addresses.
- A unique registry system ensures that each user has a distinct proxy.
- An access control system that permits third-party accounts (called "envoys") to call target contracts on behalf of the
  owner.
- A plugin system that enables the proxy to respond to callbacks
- Reversion with custom errors rather than reason strings for improved error handling.
- Comprehensive documentation via NatSpec comments.
- Development and testing using Foundry.

Overall, PRBProxy is a powerful tool for transaction composition, providing numerous features and benefits not available
through EOAs.

## Background

The concept of a proxy contract has gained popularity thanks to DappHub, the team responsible for creating the
decentralized stablecoin [DAI](https://makerdao.com). DappHub created [DSProxy](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-proxy), a
widely used tool that allows for the execution of multiple contract calls in a single transaction. Major DeFi players
like Maker, Balancer, and DeFi Saver all rely on DSProxy.

However, as the Ethereum ecosystem has evolved since DSProxy's launch in 2017, the tool has become outdated. With
significant improvements to the Solidity compiler and new EVM OPCODES, as well as the introduction of more user-friendly
development environments like [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/), it was time for an update.

Enter PRBProxy, the modern successor to DSProxy; a "DSProxy 2.0", if you will. It improves upon DSProxy in several ways:

1. PRBProxy is deployed with [CREATE2][eip-1014], which allows clients to know the proxy contract's address in advance.
2. `CREATE2` seeds are generated in a way that eliminates the risk of front-running.
3. The proxy owner cannot be changed during the `DELEGATECALL` operation.
4. PRBProxy uses high-level Solidity code that is easier to comprehend and less prone to errors.
5. A minimum gas reserve is stored in the proxy to prevent it from becoming unusable if future EVM opcode gas costs
   change.
6. PRBProxy offers more features than DSProxy.

Using CREATE2 eliminates the risk of a [chain reorg](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Chain_Reorganization) overriding the
proxy contract owner, making PRBProxy a more secure alternative to DSProxy. With DSProxy, users must wait for several
blocks to be mined before assuming the contract is secure. However, PRBProxy eliminates this risk entirely, allowing
users to even safely send funds to the proxy before it is deployed.

## Install

### Foundry

First, run the install step:

```sh
forge install --no-commit PaulRBerg/prb-proxy@v4
```

Your `.gitmodules` file should now contain the following entry:

```toml
[submodule "lib/prb-proxy"]
  branch = "v4"
  path = "lib/prb-proxy"
  url = "https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy"
```

Finally, add this to your `remappings.txt` file:

```text
prb-proxy/=lib/prb-proxy/src/
```

### Hardhat

PRBProxy is available as an npm package:

```sh
yarn add @prb/proxy
```

## Usage

To deploy a proxy, you can call either the `deploy` or the `deployFor` function in the `PRBProxyRegistry` contract. The
registry is deployed at the same address on the following chains:

| Chain                    | [Chain ID](https://chainlist.org/) | Address                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Ethereum Mainnet         | 1                                  | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://etherscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                            |
| Ethereum Goerli Testnet  | 5                                  | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                     |
| Ethereum Sepolia Testnet | 11155111                           | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                    |
| Arbitrum                 | 42161                              | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://arbiscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                             |
| Arbitrum Nova            | 42170                              | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://nova.arbiscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                        |
| Arbitrum Goerli          | 421613                             | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://goerli-rollup-explorer.arbitrum.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63/contracts) |
| Optimism                 | 10                                 | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                 |
| Optimism Goerli          | 420                                | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://blockscout.com/optimism/goerli/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63/contracts)     |
| Polygon                  | 137                                | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://polygonscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                         |
| Polygon Mumbai           | 80001                              | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                  |
| Gnosis Chain             | 100                                | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://blockscout.com/xdai/mainnet/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63/contracts)        |
| Avalanche                | 43114                              | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://snowtrace.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                            |
| Avalanche Fuji           | 43113                              | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://testnet.snowtrace.io/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                    |
| BNB Smart Chain          | 56                                 | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://bscscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                             |
| BNB Smart Chain Testnet  | 97                                 | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://testnet.bscscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                     |
| Fantom Testnet           | 4002                               | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://testnet.ftmscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                     |
| Fantom Opera             | 250                                | [0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63](https://ftmscan.com/address/0x43fA1CFCacAe71492A36198EDAE602Fe80DdcA63#code)                             |

### Targets

To make use of PRBProxy, you'll need a "target" contract. Targets consist of stateless scripts and are the key to
leveraging PRBProxy for transaction composition.

As an example, here's a target contract that wraps ETH into WETH (the ERC-20 version of ETH) and deposits the resulting
WETH into a DeFi protocol called Acme:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED
pragma solidity >=0.8.18 <=0.9.0;

interface AcmeLike {
  function depositCollateral(address token, uint256 collateralAmount);
}

interface WethLike {
  function deposit() external payable;
}

function wrapEthAndDepositCollateral(AcmeLike acme) external payable override {
  uint256 depositAmount = msg.value;

  // Convert the received ETH to WETH.
  WethLike weth = WethLike(0xC02aaA39b223FE8D0A0e5C4F27eAD9083C756Cc2);
  weth.deposit{ value: depositAmount }();

  // Deposit the WETH as collateral into the Acme DeFi protocol.
  acme.depositCollateral(address(weth), depositAmount);
}
```

For more examples of target contracts, see the [Targets][targets] wiki.

### Frontends

Integrating PRBProxy into a frontend app is a straightforward process:

1. Begin by calling the `getCurrentProxy` function on the registry to determine if the user already has a proxy.
2. If the user does not have a proxy, ask them to deploy one by calling either the `deploy` or `deployFor` function.
3. Interact with your desired target contract using the `execute` function.
4. Going forward, treat the proxy address as the user of your system.

However, this is just scratching the surface. For more examples of how to use PRBProxy in a frontend environment, check
out the [Frontends][frontends] wiki. Additionally, Maker's developer guide, [Working with DSProxy][dsproxy-guide],
provides an in-depth exploration of the proxy concept that can also help you understand how to use PRBProxy. Just be
sure to keep in mind the differences outlined throughout this document.

## Gas Efficiency

It costs 528,529 gas to deploy a PRBProxy, whereas a DSProxy costs 596,198 gas - a reduction in deployment costs of
roughly 12%.

The `execute` function in PRBProxy is slightly more expensive than in its counterpart, due to the safety checks in our
implementation. However, the majority of gas costs when calling execute are instead related to the logic being executed
in the target contract.

## Contributing

Feel free to dive in! [Open](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/issues/new) an issue,
[start](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/discussions/new) a discussion, or submit a PR.

### Pre Requisites

You will need the following software on your machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry)
- [Node.Js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

In addition, familiarity with [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org/) is requisite.

### Set Up

Clone this repository including submodules:

```sh
$ git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 git@github.com:PaulRBerg/prb-proxy.git
```

Then, inside the project's directory, run this to install the Node.js dependencies:

```sh
$ yarn install
```

Now you can start making changes.

### Syntax Highlighting

You will need the following VSCode extensions:

- [vscode-solidity](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JuanBlanco.solidity)
- [vscode-tree-language](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CTC.vscode-tree-extension)

## Security

While I have strict standards for code quality and test coverage, it's important to note that this project may not be
entirely risk-free. Although I have taken measures to ensure the security of PRBProxy, it has not yet been audited by a
third-party security researcher.

### Caveat Emptor

Please be aware that this software is experimental and is provided on an "as is" and "as available" basis. I do not
offer any warranties, and I cannot be held responsible for any direct or indirect loss resulting from the continued use
of this codebase.

### Contact

If you discover any bugs or security issues, please report them via [Telegram](https://t.me/PaulRBerg).

## Acknowledgments

- [ds-proxy](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-proxy) - DappHub's proxy, which powers the Maker protocol.
- [wand](https://github.com/nmushegian/wand) - attempt to build DSProxy 2.0, started by one of the original authors of
  DSProxy.
- [dsa-contracts](https://github.com/Instadapp/dsa-contracts) - InstaDapp's DeFi Smart Accounts.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md) © Paul Razvan Berg

<!-- Links -->

[eip-1014]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1014
[frontends]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/wiki/Frontends
[targets]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/wiki/Targets
[se-3667]: https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/3667/difference-between-call-callcode-and-delegatecall/3672
[dsproxy-guide]:
  https://github.com/makerdao/developerguides/blob/9ded1b68228e6cd70885f1326349c6bf087b9573/devtools/working-with-dsproxy/working-with-dsproxy.md

Commit message:

docs: document enshrined target in README
chore: add "Sepolia" in Foundry config
docs: update contract addresses in README

README.md, after:

# PRBProxy [![Github Actions][gha-badge]][gha] [![Coverage][codecov-badge]][codecov] [![Foundry][foundry-badge]][foundry] [![License: MIT][license-badge]][license]

[gha]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/actions
[gha-badge]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy
[codecov-badge]: https://codecov.io/gh/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/branch/staging/graph/badge.svg?token=4YV6JCTO9R
[foundry]: https://getfoundry.sh/
[foundry-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Foundry-FFDB1C.svg
[license]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg

PRBProxy is a **proxy contract that allows for the composition of Ethereum transactions on behalf of the contract
owner**, acting as a smart wallet that enables multiple contract calls within a single transaction. Externally owned
accounts (EOAs) do not have this functionality; they are limited to interacting with only one contract per transaction.

Some key features of PRBProxy include:

- Forwarding calls with [`DELEGATECALL`][se-3667]
- Use of [CREATE2][eip-1014] to deploy the proxies at deterministic addresses.
- A unique registry system ensures that each user has a distinct proxy.
- An access control system that permits third-party accounts (called "envoys") to call target contracts on behalf of the
  owner.
- A plugin system that enables the proxy to respond to callbacks
- Reversion with custom errors rather than reason strings for improved error handling.
- Comprehensive documentation via NatSpec comments.
- Development and testing using Foundry.

Overall, PRBProxy is a powerful tool for transaction composition, providing numerous features and benefits not available
through EOAs.

## Background

The concept of a proxy contract has gained popularity thanks to DappHub, the team responsible for creating the
decentralized stablecoin [DAI](https://makerdao.com). DappHub created [DSProxy](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-proxy), a
widely used tool that allows for the execution of multiple contract calls in a single transaction. Major DeFi players
like Maker, Balancer, and DeFi Saver all rely on DSProxy.

However, as the Ethereum ecosystem has evolved since DSProxy's launch in 2017, the tool has become outdated. With
significant improvements to the Solidity compiler and new EVM OPCODES, as well as the introduction of more user-friendly
development environments like [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/), it was time for an update.

Enter PRBProxy, the modern successor to DSProxy; a "DSProxy 2.0", if you will. It improves upon DSProxy in several ways:

1. PRBProxy is deployed with [CREATE2][eip-1014], which allows clients to know the proxy contract's address in advance.
2. `CREATE2` seeds are generated in a way that eliminates the risk of front-running.
3. The proxy owner cannot be changed during the `DELEGATECALL` operation.
4. PRBProxy uses high-level Solidity code that is easier to comprehend and less prone to errors.
5. A minimum gas reserve is stored in the proxy to prevent it from becoming unusable if future EVM opcode gas costs
   change.
6. PRBProxy offers more features than DSProxy.

Using CREATE2 eliminates the risk of a [chain reorg](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Chain_Reorganization) overriding the
proxy contract owner, making PRBProxy a more secure alternative to DSProxy. With DSProxy, users must wait for several
blocks to be mined before assuming the contract is secure. However, PRBProxy eliminates this risk entirely, allowing
users to even safely send funds to the proxy before it is deployed.

## Install

### Foundry

First, run the install step:

```sh
forge install --no-commit PaulRBerg/prb-proxy@v4
```

Your `.gitmodules` file should now contain the following entry:

```toml
[submodule "lib/prb-proxy"]
  branch = "v4"
  path = "lib/prb-proxy"
  url = "https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy"
```

Finally, add this to your `remappings.txt` file:

```text
prb-proxy/=lib/prb-proxy/src/
```

### Hardhat

PRBProxy is available as an npm package:

```sh
yarn add @prb/proxy
```

## Usage

To deploy a proxy, you have two options: you can either call the `deploy` or the `deployFor` function in the
`PRBProxyRegistry` contract.

Once the proxy is deployed, you can start interacting with target contracts. PRBProxy ships with one "enshrined" target
contract called `PRBProxyHelpers`. This contract provides several useful functions, including:

- `installPlugin`
- `setMinGasReserve`
- `setPermission`
- `uninstallPlugin`

You call the functions above by ABI-encoding their calldata and calling `execute` on the proxy. The logic in
`PRBProxyHelpers` is kept separate from the proxy itself to reduce deployment costs.

### Addresses

The registry and the enshrined target are deployed at the same address on the following chains:

| Contract | Chain                   | [Chain ID](https://chainlist.org/) | Address                                                                                                                           |
| -------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Registry | Ethereum Goerli Testnet | 5                                  | [0x7aE53f08B444D481d207e5F335Df017CE6E9d248](https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x7aE53f08B444D481d207e5F335Df017CE6E9d248#code) |
| Helpers  | Ethereum Goerli Testnet | 5                                  | [0xDc608dFCc62E0e7756439270D09881EEDf7885EF](https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0xDc608dFCc62E0e7756439270D09881EEDf7885EF#code) |

### Targets

To make use of PRBProxy, you'll need a "target" contract. Targets consist of stateless scripts and are the key to
leveraging PRBProxy for transaction composition.

As an example, here's a target contract that wraps ETH into WETH (the ERC-20 version of ETH) and deposits the resulting
WETH into a DeFi protocol called Acme:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED
pragma solidity >=0.8.18 <=0.9.0;

interface AcmeLike {
  function depositCollateral(address token, uint256 collateralAmount);
}

interface WethLike {
  function deposit() external payable;
}

function wrapEthAndDepositCollateral(AcmeLike acme) external payable override {
  uint256 depositAmount = msg.value;

  // Convert the received ETH to WETH.
  WethLike weth = WethLike(0xC02aaA39b223FE8D0A0e5C4F27eAD9083C756Cc2);
  weth.deposit{ value: depositAmount }();

  // Deposit the WETH as collateral into the Acme DeFi protocol.
  acme.depositCollateral(address(weth), depositAmount);
}
```

For more examples of target contracts, see the [Targets][targets] wiki.

### Frontends

Integrating PRBProxy into a frontend app is a straightforward process:

1. Begin by calling the `getCurrentProxy` function on the registry to determine if the user already has a proxy.
2. If the user does not have a proxy, ask them to deploy one by calling either the `deploy` or `deployFor` function.
3. Interact with your desired target contract using the `execute` function.
4. Going forward, treat the proxy address as the user of your system.

However, this is just scratching the surface. For more examples of how to use PRBProxy in a frontend environment, check
out the [Frontends][frontends] wiki. Additionally, Maker's developer guide, [Working with DSProxy][dsproxy-guide],
provides an in-depth exploration of the proxy concept that can also help you understand how to use PRBProxy. Just be
sure to keep in mind the differences outlined throughout this document.

## Gas Efficiency

It costs 528,529 gas to deploy a PRBProxy, whereas a DSProxy costs 596,198 gas - a reduction in deployment costs of
roughly 12%.

The `execute` function in PRBProxy is slightly more expensive than in its counterpart, due to the safety checks in our
implementation. However, the majority of gas costs when calling execute are instead related to the logic being executed
in the target contract.

## Contributing

Feel free to dive in! [Open](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/issues/new) an issue,
[start](https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/discussions/new) a discussion, or submit a PR.

### Pre Requisites

You will need the following software on your machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry)
- [Node.Js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

In addition, familiarity with [Solidity](https://soliditylang.org/) is requisite.

### Set Up

Clone this repository including submodules:

```sh
$ git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 git@github.com:PaulRBerg/prb-proxy.git
```

Then, inside the project's directory, run this to install the Node.js dependencies:

```sh
$ yarn install
```

Now you can start making changes.

### Syntax Highlighting

You will need the following VSCode extensions:

- [vscode-solidity](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JuanBlanco.solidity)
- [vscode-tree-language](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CTC.vscode-tree-extension)

## Security

While I have strict standards for code quality and test coverage, it's important to note that this project may not be
entirely risk-free. Although I have taken measures to ensure the security of PRBProxy, it has not yet been audited by a
third-party security researcher.

### Caveat Emptor

Please be aware that this software is experimental and is provided on an "as is" and "as available" basis. I do not
offer any warranties, and I cannot be held responsible for any direct or indirect loss resulting from the continued use
of this codebase.

### Contact

If you discover any bugs or security issues, please report them via [Telegram](https://t.me/PaulRBerg).

## Acknowledgments

- [ds-proxy](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-proxy) - DappHub's proxy, which powers the Maker protocol.
- [wand](https://github.com/nmushegian/wand) - attempt to build DSProxy 2.0, started by one of the original authors of
  DSProxy.
- [dsa-contracts](https://github.com/Instadapp/dsa-contracts) - InstaDapp's DeFi Smart Accounts.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md) © Paul Razvan Berg

<!-- Links -->

[eip-1014]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1014
[frontends]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/wiki/Frontends
[targets]: https://github.com/PaulRBerg/prb-proxy/wiki/Targets
[se-3667]: https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/3667/difference-between-call-callcode-and-delegatecall/3672
[dsproxy-guide]:
  https://github.com/makerdao/developerguides/blob/9ded1b68228e6cd70885f1326349c6bf087b9573/devtools/working-with-dsproxy/working-with-dsproxy.md
